=== tiTeam.adoc
https://drive.google.com/drive/shared-drives[] +

- - -
_2024-09-11 10:00 Thurs, day two_

https://quality.arc42.org/[] +

8 important system properties, which are sufficient to cover most, if not all, required, desirable or expected of the more than 100 traditional qualities H/T Dave 

Reliable, Efficient, Flexible, Usable, Suitable, Safe, Secure, Operable

"REFUSSSO"

- - -

=== Requirements Identification/Definition

Aqua: Event Registration Systems +
Green: Externalizing Authorization for the Federation Manager +
Orange: Trust and Identity Services Health Measurement +
Magenta: Identity attributes for IAM from CRM (IAM Tracks Identity Attributes in CRM +

*Functional Requirements* +
*Product* features or functions +
that *developers* must implement +
to enable *users* to accomplish their tasks

SZ: The nucleus of the needs for the 4 project teams is around "identity" reconciliation (of people, of orgs, of services?)

natural person issues are solved
org identity of institutions is a real challenge

The rest is sound & fury

We'll graduate to the access policy data use cases in another phase

rather than tracking organizations track parties to service agreements.

we gotta know which provisioning actions should take place

Netbox is a network automation system.  NS uses nautobot, which is a fork of Netbox

"Crosswalk Registry"  is really a graph of things and their labeled relations

"An API is a View, too"

=== Thurs PM session

we don't support / we have a gap around
. things making statement'a bunch of key-value pairs" about themselves
. I2 making statemebts about things

View can work w Identity Attrs and CRM Attrs

. Unit of Work 1: "crosswalk registry" (model) plus it's own comtroller and view
. Unit of Work 2: "Self-service MVC for user/UI changes to internal info" and the controller is where the biz rules are applied
. Unit of Work 3: "Enroller" with ability to group ppl before they get an official UUID
. Unit of Work 4: is a "Facade" on (Salesforce,...) for Controller to interact with
   "facade" is an MVC controller

Do these units of work utilize existing TAP components? Or does it redo the top level architecture? The can use TAP components where applicable

"we need at least an identity stub for any person of interest to any of our systems"

"If we want to decommission COmanage, we HAVE to create MVC / Unit 2"

Grouper as the biz rules holder? Does the controller get its rules from Grouper?

domain objects for crosswalk  registry

entities  entity types  relationships 

rdf triples in simplest form:  {entity1, relationship, entity2}


- - -
_2024-09-11 10:00 Wed, day one_

=== Overview

. End up w curated list of requirements (customers include Net+)

. Assign 4 - 6 projects to resources

. Intro to 2nd phase

. greenfield project definition and planning

. We suck at UI design and building, so...

=== Renewals

.. coming (data from Excel, LinkSpheres MAY come into this space, currently archives only)

.. alfa jango: FM, COmanage (Janos) +
.. Bert is now contracting w us (nothing to do with GA Tech)
.. CirrusID: Gateway for I2, Catalyst...
.. Commodo/Sectigo whew, settled
.. CSW Solutions: UI/UX Build for AWS,GCP,Azure (Chicago) is boutique devel for ME; // FireAnt
.. Distillery Tech: Large, deep deep bench, broad: Analytical breakdown of complex initiatives; reaonably priced (Does NOT charge $500/svc hour like others; Dev for MikeS/I2 NetwSvcs
.. Duke: channel to buy ShilenP / Grouper
.. EricH: AI FOR RUCC
.. EmilyE
.. Evolveum: good guys! Catalyst & Developers; Slavek gets it that we are not a software vendor; probono contrib,
.. Fasur Tech: Vivek Sachdeva; Option for operational needs
.. Fireant svc; I2 website redo. Great stuff (was IJ coding Jango)
.. g'town: BrentPutnam
.. Ian Young Fed Specialist; contracted w InC, JIST, SUNET,...
.. James Dickerson (training on EduROAM)
.. KennyM Net+ consu
.. KeithH MZ
.. ChrisHy: U Penn (don't use UPenn email for comm.)
.. Painless Sec operates EduROAM, splunk, grafana, testing
.. Paul Riddle shib training, dev deliv
.. Provision IAM evol prtnr, mP support
.. Robert Gorrell eduROAM training
.. RuthAnne Bevier Net+ Cloud Storage WG
.. Saltant LLC: 1 person contracting for C++ Shib SP (thru JISC)
.. Sharif Nijim Net+ AWS cloud draining
.. "SCG Collaboration Group" Spherical Cow Group COm dev, training, Catalyst Prtnr for members; COm support may go to AlfaJango (Janos)
.. The Ohio State University ScottC Buyout
.. Thomas Trappler  Net+ 
.. Tom Barton Research Interface thru 2025
.. Unicon Diverse bench as Distillery; multi-skilled svc. provider. Prof Svcs; probono contrib, Open source advocacy
.. ViaanTech  Vivek on Grouper
.. William Kaufman
.. X1 Consulting Net+, 1 person LLC

*Some of these are underutilized...*

*Break until 13:45*

=== Requirements Identification/Definition


=== 

. ] Install one drive desktop client, will show up as drive

(NET+) Requirements section - Cloud Scorecard website (Working Copy) - Google Docs
(NET+) Requirements section - Cloud Scorecard website (Working Copy) - Google Docs

techs requirements negotiation kills off paths; the anded MUST requirements must evaluate to true

MUST renegotiate the requirements

requirements MUST be
atomic
immutable but supercedable
traceable back to motivating element of the problem statement

req are not designs
reqs are not specs, 
reqa are not verbose (clarity improved by conciseness)

==== Identify as many BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS / USER REQUIREMENTS and SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS as possible that are prescribed or implied by Use Cases created

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/0AOw5XgPOh9O4Uk9PVA[] +


we focus on the outcome and the penultimate step, NOT on the process that gets the DATA to match the assumptions about it. It's HOW we aquire the data, not WHAT data is sought

data is managed to the metric used to assess succcess/failure
adequate data currency is determined by the (use case) requirement


what are the penalties paid when data is wrong or violates our prior assumptions about it

all 4 use cases boil down to 
- claims we want to make
- claims the entity must make authoritative claims about themselves
- claims that we have to be able to verify
- claims other make about us or other entities

- claims must be consistent with each other

- falsity of claim is found downstream from the authoritative system

- our difficulties w use case requirements often came from other conflicting requirements

=== biz processes involved

Is Stova the pinch point for identity creation?

can we put ppl into subject source and get a temp id that can be used to make them a member of a group, then IF they enroll, we can swap 

new person with a temp id event, should trigger an enrollment invitation

Shilen @ Duke made a bolt-on to Grouper that solves this identity creation

] migrate functions to their proper system e.g. identity creation should end up in Identity Registry system

- - -
_2024-09-10 10:43 archF2fDenver_
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1G5EmpX_-TpysXNYLegS0QYJymYQw5sM4Y6oZXIZJeec/edit?usp=sharing[] <- Planning Retreat and Workshop Notes +
https://internet2.zoom.us/j/81618088106?pwd=AxK1URFHxVC3b5RlahQhTNTIPvtQEg.1#success[] <- Zoom coords +

{shared=drives}/2024-Architecture Workshop Sandbox/

START at 11 am Eastern / 10 am Central

- - -
_2020-01-30 15:09 Monthly Staff Planning, Assignments_

Thing 1: 40% ICP PLATFORM FULLY IN PLACE
 - Project around COmanage/midPoint integration
 - NIH thinks groups the way we do


Thing 2: 40% PLUMBING THAT MOVES THE DATA AROUND; Identity data warehouse to feed analytics and misc needs
- Data schema / API / messaging SME


Everything else: 20%
- CSP participant support
- "mP Deployment Guide" and related: Documentation, Training, Packaging,
- SI coordination ()


In units of days per week by Thing:
T1:    2 days
T2:    2 days
Other: 1 day



- - -
==== Deliverables under Keith's purview

* Schema templates for common IAM entities
* Define attribute by attribute Mappings between specific entity schemas (SoRs, Grouper, Registry, Provisioned Systems)
* Develop and document configurable connectors as appropriate to perform needed transformations
* Recommendations on Service-to-Service AuthNZ (with NickR, DaveS, others)
* Assess which APIs will be of most use to development teams from TAP adopters
* Identify and document key component interface APIs
* Working across teams, select and detail typical situations and problems; Reuse them across various core training courses, tutorials and how-to documents
* Contribute to training curriculum
* Contribute to the efforts to move toward configurable and context-specific UIs

Other duties

* Coordination with Evolveum around midPoint
* Assist CSP institutions as they work through their projects
* Work with Co-Chair Ethan Kromhout to plan and conduct Software Integration meetings

I am including Keith on this because planning session time will need to include him directly.  We will be actively working to

- ‘narrow the focus’ of the working groups to accelerate tangible outcomes.

This means that discussions will require ALL of our efforts to help him herd the cats to get a specific list of deliverables sequenced.  I don’t want to stile ideation, but I do want to shift (and it will probably feel rather abrupt) to scheduling of deliverables based on the learnings from previous discussions and exploratory efforts.  Keith remains a contractor/consultant to Internet2 throughout 2020.

- - -
Nick: Fully loaded

Sara: Fuzzy approach to cloud leading to ppl closing their moats; apparent #1-ish Cloud Academy

Paul: Not enough buckets: 1: ICP
                          2: TAP
                          Other: training, cert stuff

Chris: [Excited about midPoint] advance


Bill: ICP ICP Go Barry!!!



- - -
_2020-01-17 14:00 New Year's Heads Up meeting_

*Steve Zoppi Stage Settings*

Goal for this meeting: Clarity about 2 major project that need to be completed in next 6 months:

* d
* e

Associated Projects List:

```
Associated Projects:
Certificate Service
Campus Success Partners (CSP v2)
CILogon
Consent Informed Attribute Release
eduroam
eduTeams (Geant)
FIM4R / FIM4L
Globus
idPy (SATOSA, pyFF, etc)
IMS Global (EDU Api Task Force) <= Keith
ITANA
REFEDS Schema Editorial Board (new home of eduPerson, etc) <= Keith
Seamless Access
SimpleSAML PHP
Test Federation
```
- 22 potential resource providers (e.g. ITANA), GeoT, ChadR, ChrisHy, DavidW, SCG, Ian Young, ScottC, TomB, Alfa Jango, Sectigo, JISC, Evolveum, FireAnt Studio, ShilenP, EthanK, BillT, Cirrus Identity, BarryRandall, TSG, Legal,...

- marshalling and keeping this focused is a challenge
- Bert B-L taken off table by his U
- Tech work has to be selected by us
-

- separate convos with M$ and Google

- Cloud linkage to M$ and Google
- CILogon is on shaky ground uses Globus Auth and Globus depends on CILogon for SAML bridge; NSF has said they can apply but need it to transition to production
- SCG contract renewed at a scaled-back level (with heartburn)
- Licia and Klaus about GEANT having funds that they can't manage to spend; Internet2 Could be brokered in;
- Last yer in No, saw COm. perun ( Christos et al., COmanage is downplayed because they ) and hexa supported by Christos, Savek is Hexa, and he went to mP, eduTeams disc is an eduID,
- GEANT wants our efforts, but the unsolved problem is how they cam fund it.
- COmanage needs a funding path and skills
- Need to dev a roadmap so GEANT can buy in.
- JISC banking for EU, brexit breaks it; josh leaving is big, too; we are encapsulating them

- Leif now has MAARINA WHO gets it.

- 6 OS collab mgmt products in EU/US, : eduTEAMS :=: (COm + Perun + Hexa) Jisc + 2 others unidentified

- Weird community

- COm is a concern to both us and GEANT; Cadre of competent developers, Complex UIs; Shib core (SP but IdP, too) is approaching old library issues

G loves COm, Shib & Grouper

Inside I2: Howard on NSF and Research (pushed by board presidents, not CIOs)
Campuses interested in network infrastructure enhancements (OESS, from IU!?); Increasing demand for more work from IU

Howard wants I2 community co-ownership of IP with IU. NetScvc Software Mgr; another resource to help them adopt the m'ware

Collab Infrastructure Portal HAS to get 'finished' for any of this to come to fruition

Thing 1: 40% PLATFORM IN PLACE

Thing 2: 40% PLUMBING THAT MOVES THE DATA AROUND; Identity data warehouse to feed

Everything else: 20%

Reactions:

- Barry has lots of experience: In the end it'll be hub and spoke; Measure, cut: We'll do measure by Global Summit
- Barry has developed an SoW that reveals his vision; that will be shared with us.

Sara as the helmsperson

==== Deliverables under Keith's purview

* Schema templates for common IAM entities
* Define attribute by attribute Mappings between specific entity schemas (SoRs, Grouper, Registry, Provisioned Systems)
* Develop and document configurable connectors as appropriate to perform needed transformations
* Recommendations on Service-to-Service AuthNZ (with NickR, DaveS, others)
* Assess which APIs will be of most use to development teams from TAP adopters
* Identify and document key component interface APIs
* Working across teams, select and detail typical situations and problems; Reuse them across various core training courses, tutorials and how-to documents
* Contribute to training curriculum
* Contribute to the efforts to move toward configurable and context-specific UIs

Other duties

* Assist CSP institutions as they work through their projects
* Work with Co-Chair Ethan Kromhout to plan and conduct Software Integration meetings






==== "As Seen On Slack" ... New Year Heads Up

*Nick Roy*
Mon 1/6/2020 12:20 PM
Thanks Steve- I think our planned 90-minute meetings will be a good place for us to focus on operational and other process consistency. Dave has done a ton of work in the FM and Federation Operations space not just on automation and process, but on documentation

*Steven Zoppi*
Mon 1/6/2020 11:43 AM

Hi All and Happy New Year!

Here’s a LONG item to kick off your ‘leisure time’ reading! (but it’ll get  us started on the same page – at least literally)

One of the things that became crystal clear during my reflections in the holiday break, is how grateful I am to work with such a talented and collaborative team of professionals.  You all have done an amazing job of pulling at a LOT of threads and staying flexible throughout all of that work.

This year’s objective is to increase signal while reducing noise as much as I can for the coming year and will count on each of you to help me ensure that goal is met! To start our discussions off, I’d like to ‘level-set’ my thinking and where each of us needs to focus for the coming year.  My primary efforts are to ensure that we have consistency of practices, clarify of roles, proper cross-divisional insights and community and a properly coordinated community of institutional contributors, and development partnerships.

To that point, we have a LOT of fodder already loaded into the cannon and together, we will need to sort things out a little differently; building upon last year’s progress.

*Meetings/Conferences*:

We have a fairly large number of obligations / options this year and our objective will be to get the best coverage possible (value) , in balance with the corresponding expenses.  Here’s the starting list of events for the year and if there are more, we need to know about them as a team – please add to them if you know what they are.

```
Global Summit: You will be notified after Ann and Kevin and I have had time to discuss.
IIW #1: TBD
IIW #2: TBD
TI Workshop: Stockholm: TBD
TNC: TBD
TIIME Workshop: TBD
Educause: TBD
Company Retreat: Scheduled – Internet2 Regular Full Time Employees attending
CSP Group Meeting #1: TBD
CSP Group Meeting #2: TBD
Technology Exchange 2020: TBD
BaseCamp: TBD
ICP Roadmapping: TBD
COManage Developers Meeting: TBD
Architectural Planning #1: TBD
Architectural Planning #2: TBD
```

I will be scheduling a 90 minute session soon for us to work through planning / sequencing and work assignments. My intent is to make this happen (at least) monthly

- I'll ask Bill to help me with scheduling them and ultimately conducting them

...because there are a number of upcoming items which will contribute "disturbances in the force" and we will need to keep things on track across all of our 'attached resources and working groups' a little more tightly than we have had to do last year.

*Below are the focus areas for 2020 I’d like you all to consider and comment upon*

*Sara’s Efforts*: In a shift from last year; Sara’s time (although ‘on paper’ is supposed to be 50% NET+ 50% T&I) had become highly fragmented across a number of ‘trial balloon’ efforts as well as myriad research focused cloud efforts.   This year, Sean and I are working together to reduce fragmentation of Sara’s focus and bring clarity to the cloud needs that will serve the community ‘writ-large’ – including Research.  Specifically crafted around Commercial Cloud service integration and architecture, we will be tuning her *focus on cloud services and integration with those services*.  In addition to this focus, much of the development partner coordination and planning will start to shift to Sara.

*Nick’s Efforts*: Nick’s focus will continue on the Operational development and enhancement of the Federation’s Operations and the Requirements for the Federation Manager software and related services.  Security efforts will still remain focused on the FM but I’d like to *increase Security purview to include the cloud-based services and Internet2 Identity stack* which we are collectively building.  I also want to see the efforts for Operations and Automation (CI/CD etc. to be made consistent for FM as well as the deployed Identity stack).

*Chris and Paul’s Efforts*: There is a growing need to find a way to create force-multipliers for efforts and clear some space for backlogged items (old and ‘soon to become’). In addition to adding contractor resources to help take some pressure off of their time (partially represented by Barry Randall once we have a suitable SOW in place), we will be actively *exploring the possibilities of adopting some existing community services into our portfolio* (we’ll talk about these in more detail during the discussions).  This means that we need to continue to working on defining force multipliers and setting up a means of freeing a bit of their time to operationalize / deploy to production any of the Platform work which will be supporting the Identity services we are pursuing.

*Bill’s Efforts*: This year, with a reduction in the total number of working groups, we will shift attention to *getting our own production and development pipelines to be more procedural, time-boxed and delivery focused*.  Bill will be working with Sara to ensure that the dev partners are delivering for us (as he has already been doing) but with Sara’s help, it will be easier between them, to track delivery dates and deliverables more rigorously than I have been able to do alone.  Bill has been spread a little thin across working groups and other spurious activity so I’d like to make sure that THIS year, *all of the Software development and operational deployment artifacts and processes are made as consistent as possible through Bill's efforts*.

*Keith’s Efforts*: I am including Keith on this because planning session time will need to include him directly.  We will be actively working to *‘narrow the focus’ of the working groups to accelerate tangible outcomes*.  This means that discussions will require ALL of our efforts to help him herd the cats to get a specific list of deliverables sequenced.  I don’t want to stile ideation, but I do want to shift (and it will probably feel rather abrupt) to *scheduling of deliverables based on the learnings from previous discussions and exploratory efforts*.  Keith remains a contractor/consultant to Internet2 throughout 2020.

Looking forward to your thoughts and reactions.  If you find inconsistencies or don’t see how each of you will be dependent upon each other (and me) please “reply-all” so we can get things sorted out before our first meeting.

Again – Happy New Year!    Steve

- - -

? Should we think of Ethan as another staff-like resource that can take on assignments?

- - -
_2019-08-05 08:21 references and links_

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l8S6KHeclYeYsUrqBmewhuw1mSayqS9vmJy9X0vK5Ak/edit#heading=h.1ifkmt6p5rfw  <= WTM agendas 2019Q3
