{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red41\green41\blue41;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green82\blue102;
\red145\green170\blue175;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18360\viewh10820\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440

\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Internet2 Announces Kevin M. Morooney as Vice President of Trust and Identity Programs\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\b0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Posted on Dec 11, 2015 by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.internet2.edu/people/detail/2351/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Elizabeth Boten}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Tags: Executive,Frontpage News,TIER\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 WASHINGTON, D.C., December 11, 2015 \'96{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.internet2.edu/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Internet2}} announced today that Kevin M. Morooney will join Internet2 as vice president of trust and identity programs. Scholar-focused trans-organizational trust, identity and global federation have become of vital importance to the mission and work of the Internet2 community and across the broader research and education landscape.\'a0 Morooney will lead efforts to develop effective long- term trust and identity strategies, and the design, development and delivery of the TIER (Trust and Identity in Education and Research) program components. Morooney has been deeply involved in the development of InCommon and TIER, and has been a very highly regarded leader in the trust and identity space in the higher education community for many years.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Since 2006, Morooney has worked as vice provost for Information Technology (IT) at Penn State, alongside a diverse team of IT professionals from Information Technology Services (ITS), the University\'92s largest IT unit, and the broader Penn State IT community to support students, faculty and staff at 24 campus locations. Morooney will begin work at Internet2 on January 5, 2016.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93As I begin this new chapter in my career, I am excited to advance the pursuits of Internet2\'92s broad and vibrant community of research and higher education members as well as the broader eco-system both nationally and globally,\'94 said Morooney.\cb1 \
\cb3 In his new role, Morooney will be responsible for executive management of Internet2\'92s trust and identity programs. These programs include InCommon and TIER (Trust and Identity in Education and Research), which is Internet2\'92s program to integrate its InCommon program and various trust and identity related middleware programs into a coherent set of tools, policies and practices across the adopter community to support seamless trans-organizational identity and access management.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Morooney will also work closely with service providers, federal agencies and the broader education industry to assure Internet2\'92s identity strategy integrates effectively with these entities, as well as with the global research and education network organizations to assure identity services operate, to the greatest extent possible across national and global boundaries.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Internet2 is thrilled that Kevin will be joining our team, and I am confident that his experience and expertise will provide tremendous value and benefit to the research and education community,\'94 said Dave Lambert, Internet2, president and CEO. \'93Kevin\'92s deep technical expertise and understanding of identity issues coupled with his long standing relationships in the community, will help lead the community in the next phases of our trust and identity work.\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93I\'92ve known and admired Kevin for many years in his CIO role at Penn State.\'a0\'a0We\'92re all quite lucky he is moving into this important role and that the entire Internet2 community will now have the chance to benefit from his experience and leadership around identity and federation,\'94 said Tracy Futhey, Vice President, Chief Information Officer at Duke University and Search Committee Chair.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Morooney began his Penn State career in 1988 as a research programmer. Over the years, as an advocate for research computing and teaching and learning with technology, he took on many leadership positions, including as manager of numerically intensive computing, director of graduate education and research services, senior director of the Center for Academic Computing, and senior director of academic services and emerging technologies.\
 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.internet2.edu/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 About Internet2}}
\b \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\cb3 Internet2\'ae is a member-owned advanced technology community founded by the nation\'92s leading higher education institutions in 1996. Internet2 provides a collaborative environment for U.S. research and education organizations to solve common technology challenges, and to develop innovative solutions in support of their educational, research and community service missions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Internet2 also operates the nation\'92s largest and fastest, coast-to-coast research and education network, with Internet2 Network Operations Center powered by Indiana University. Internet2 serves more than 90,000 community anchor institutions, 290 U.S. universities, 70 government agencies, 42 regional and state education networks, 84 leading corporations working with our community and more than 65 national research and education networking partners representing more than 100 countries.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Internet2 offices are located in Ann Arbor, MI; Denver, CO; Emeryville, CA; Washington, DC; and West Hartford, CT. For more information, visit\'a0www.internet2.edu\'a0or follow @Internet2 on Twitter.\cb1 \
}